History books. Receipts. Diaries.
What do all these things have in common?
They record events. Whether it's
historical events, financial transactions,
or private diary entries,
records preserve event details.
And having access to these details
can help us in many ways.
Previously, we explored
the different types of processes and
procedures involved during each phase
of the incident response lifecycle.
In this section, we'll direct our focus
on one of the key components of incident investigation,
logs and alerts.
In security, logs record event details and
these details are used to
support investigations.
First, you'll learn all about logs,
what they are, and how they're created.
You'll also learn how to read and
analyze logs.
Then, we'll revisit intrusion
detection systems.
You'll explore how to
interpret signatures.
You'll have an opportunity to apply what
you've learned through hands-on activities
using a tool called Suricata.
Finally, you'll search in
SIEM tools like Splunk and
Chronicle to locate events of interest and
access log data.
Events are a valuable data source.
They help create context
around an alert, so
you can interpret the actions
that took place on a system.
Knowing how to read, analyze, and
connect different events will help you
identify malicious behavior and
protect systems from attack.
Ready?
Let's begin.